Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output.




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Runtime Interpreter,The Compiler,The Applet Viewer,The Debugger,The Class File Disassembler,The Header and Stub File Generator,The Documentation Generator,Applet Demos,API Source Code.





What is IDE?
A. IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment. Tools provided by an IDE include a text editor, a project editor, a tool bar, and an output viewer.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A: Eclipse, Intellij IDEA

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A: 1)Editing the program
2)Compiling the source code
3)Executing the byte code

what is class?
A: Set of Attributes.

What is object?
A:A Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data.

What is the entry point of an application?
A:  An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application.

Why main is static?
A:Java program's main method has to be declared static because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A:The Object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A:CLASSPATH is the path for Java application where the classes you compiled will be available.

 PATH is an environment variable which is used to locate JDK binaries like java command used to run java program and compile java source file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A:Classes are Inherited by another class
 Interfaces are implemented by other classes or extended by other interfaces.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A: No!

what is Access Specifier?
A: Access specifiers are used to control the visibility of members like classes, variables and methods.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A:Java's Object Oriented Programming.abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A: A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces.java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A: Application Programming Interface.
java.lang.reflect.Array;
java.util.Arrays;
java.util.Scanner;

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A:java does not support multiple inheritance.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A:Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists are different.,


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A:Exception is an error event that can happen during the execution of a program and disrupts its normal flow.
So in java we have to declare the specific exception.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A:The static keyword is used in java mainly for memory management. It is used with variables, methods, blocks and nested class.
Its use same way as the use of class in java.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A:Its a variable in java. Its means the value  can't be modified.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A:final variable value can't be changed.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected

What is a constructor ?
A:Block of code.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A: yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A: default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A:  in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A: super is used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. We can use super keyword to access the data member or field of parent class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A:Java virtual machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A: yes!

What version of java are you using?
A: 1.8

What is JAR stand for ?
A: Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A:JDK is for development purpose whereas JRE is for running the java programs.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A: JVM is a machine and JRE run that machine.

What is compile time and run time?
A:Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable
Run-time is the instance where the executable is running.

What is heap?
A: A heap is a tree-based data structure in which all the nodes of the tree are in a specific order.

How java manage it's memory?
A: The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A: String is immutable, StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable so they can change their values.

What is Singleton class?
A: singleton class is a class that can have only one object  at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A:Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
A: if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file, then we use transient .

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A:  in while loop, if the controlling condition becomes false in the first iteration only, then the body of the while loop is not executed at all.
The do-while loop executes the body of the loop at least once even if the condition is false at the first attempt.

What is Enum?
A:A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.

What is Iterator?
A: An iterator over a collection. Iterator takes the place of Enumeration in the Java Collections Framework.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A: They are same.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A:The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.


What is constructor chaining in Java?
A: Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A: a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation.
a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
A: Just In time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A:Java objects reside in an area called the heap,The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs.
 When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A:Yes!

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A: stack memory is used to store local variables and function call
while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A:Reflection is a process of exploring and examining ourselves, our perspectives, attributes, experiences and actions / interactions. It helps us gain insight and see how to move forward.

what is multithreading in java?
A:The main purpose of multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum utilize the CPU time.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A:Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.

What is Framework?
A:Frameworks are large bodies (usually many classes) of prewritten code to which you add your own code to solve a problem in a specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A:Arquillian.
JTest.
The Grinder
TestNG
JUnit.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A: TestNG is a testing framework that is capable of making Selenium tests easier to understand and of generating reports that are easy to understand.
JUnit is a unit testing framework for the Java programming language that plays a big role in regression testing. As an open-source framework, it is used to write and run repeatable automated tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A: No idea!

dependency injection is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies of another object.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A: Static binding in Java occurs during compile time
dynamic binding occurs during runtime.










