Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. to perform its task more efficiently, by influencing the ability of computer to store and retrieve data from any location in its memory.



What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A: Data insertion.
Data update.
Data retrieval.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A: Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical analysis package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence, Simulation

what is an Array?
A:Java array is an object which contains elements of a similar data type. It is a data structure where we store similar elements.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A:   Array is a fixed length data structure
ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.


what is LinkedList?
A: Java LinkedList class uses a doubly linked list to store the elements. It provides a linked-list data structure.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A: An array is the data structure that contains a collection of similar type data elements
Linked list is considered as non-primitive data structure contains a collection of unordered linked elements known as nodes.

what is queue?
A: The Queue interface is available in java.util package and extends the Collection interface.

what is stack?
A: Java provides an inbuilt object type called Stack. It is a collection that is based on the last in first out (LIFO) principle.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A: First in first out.
last in first out.

what is the order of complexity?
A: This means that it is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input, and the algorithm finishes between two factors of it.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A: Best case is the function which performs the minimum number of steps on input data of n elements.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A: Worst case is the function which performs the maximum number of steps on input data of size n.

what is tree in data structure?
A: A Tree is a non-linear data structure where data objects are organized in terms of hierarchical relationship.

what is graph in data structure?
A: A graph is a data structure for storing connected data like a network of people on a social media platform.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A: Hashtable is synchronized,
whereas HashMap is not.


What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A: RDBMS – Array
 Network data model – Graph
 Hierarchical data model – Trees


How HashMap works in java?
A: HashMap implementation inside Java. In HashMap, get(Object key) calls hashCode() on the key object and uses the returned hashValue to find a bucket location where keys and values are stored as an Entry object.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A: when we try to access an element of an array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A: Manually. In this method we manually copy elements one by one.
Arrays.copyOf() We can directly copy one array to another by using Arrays.copyOf() method.
System.arraycopy() It is another method that directly copies one array to another.
Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A:  Array is a fixed length data structure
 Java LinkedList class uses a doubly linked list to store the elements. It provides a linked-list data structure.


What is DFS and BFS?
A: Depth First Search
Breadth First Search

What is Recursion?
A: Recursion is a basic programming technique you can use in Java, in which a method calls itself to solve some problem.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A: In the linear data structure, the data is organized in a linear order in which elements are linked one after the other.
non-linear data structure involves multiple levels.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A: Big O is what is known as an asymptotic function. All this means, is that it concerns itself with the performance of an algorithm at the limit

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A: Bubble Sort	Ω(n)	O(n^2)
Insertion Sort	Ω(n)	O(n^2)
Selection Sort	Ω(n^2)	O(n^2)


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


